Chapter 15 - Working with Elasticsearch Analysis Plugins

Elasticsearch plugin, which is an approach to enhance Elasticsearch's capabilities in a customized way. 
Elasticsearch comes with many core built-in plugins. and there are many available custom plugins that have been contributed by different communities

focus only on the Analysis Plugins.

 
What Elasticsearch plugins are

Plugins are used to extend the basic capabilities of Elasticsearch in a customized way; for example, by adding custom mapping types, custom analyzers, native scripts, custom discovery mechanisms, and more. A plugin must contain a property file, named plugin-descriptor.properties , and it may optionally contain JAR files, scripts, and configuration files. 
The source of plugins can be classified into two types. 
	first the built-in core plugin that is part of the Elasticsearch package and is maintained  by the Elastic team. 
	second one is developed by individuals or different communities.

Plugin types
	API extension - adds new APIs for searching or mapping features.
	Alerting - adds new monitoring features for indices and for sending out alerts.
	Analysis - adds new tokenizers, token filters, character filters, or analyzers to analyze texts in different languages
	Discovery - adds new mechanisms to discover nodes in the cluster.
	Ingest - adds new features to the ingest node.
	Management - adds new UI features to interact with the Elasticsearch server.
	Mapper - adds new field data types for the mappings.
	Security - addresses the security needs of an enterprise.
	Repository - adds new repositories for snapshot backups and restore features.
	Store - adds new storage instead of the default Lucene store.

Working with the ICU Analysis plugin
The ICU Analysis plugin is a set of libraries that integrates the Lucene ICU module into Elasticsearch. Essentially, the purpose of the ICU is to add the support of Unicode and globalization to provide better text segmentation analysis of Asian languages. From Elasticsearch's point of view, this plugin provides new components in text analysis,

In most cases, the token that is generated by the icu_analyzer analyzer is a two-character word, while the token that is generated by the standard analyzer is a single-character word. The total number of tokens generated from the input text by the default analyzer is 24, while it is 15 from icu_analyzer . 
Clearly, the icu_analyzer analyzer gains a much better understanding of the word boundaries in the text analysis.


Working with the International Components for Unicode (ICU) Analysis plugin
Working with the Smart Chinese Analysis plugin
Working with the IK Analysis plugin